[MUSIC]
>> Justin Meyer: To read styles, first
we actually do to have a little bit talk
about how styles are applied to a element.
So here in my page let's
say I had a link or
an li list item with
an anchor inside of it.
And I'm gonna have the CSS of
li display: inline-block;.
>> Justin Meyer: I'm gonna
get my li as Doberman.
And if I do Doberman.style.display,
what is that value gonna give me back,
do you think?
>> Speaker 2: To display inline block.
>> Justin Meyer: You would think, display
would give you back inline block, but
it's going to give you
back an empty string.
This style object here on an element,
that's where a lot of times where people
think that it's going to have, it's going
to have all of my element styles that are
applied to it, but that's not the case.
So if I were to get an li the same way,
>> Justin Meyer: And do console.dir on it.
>> Justin Meyer: You can see all of
the style properties are emptied out,
and I'll explain why this is.
Even though, if I had li, if I had
any stylesheet that was styling lis,
these things would still
be all emptied out.
>> Justin Meyer: The reason is,
because there's a different way to
get the computed style of a element.
And there's this kind of complex
way of going about it which is
called
document.defaultView.getComputedStyle,
we'll pass it the element, and get
the style property that you want to read.
This is how you get the actual current
CSS value as kind of coordinated from
the element style property which might be
set, there might be property set here.
And any styles defined in
the style sheets, right?
If you read it this way,
you get what the actual value is.
>> Justin Meyer: The style,
you might be wondering what the heck
is this style object for on elements?
Then if you can't read it,
it's only there so you can write it.
If x is an override to any
styles in your stylesheet, but
it's only there for
JavaScript really to write to.
If you really want to read the full
value you should do it this way.
It's kind of weird but that's how it is.
>> Speaker 3: Or if you created inline
styles, if you can read inline styles.
>> Justin Meyer: You can read them, but
only if that property was set as that
value, actually going to be the actual
value that that element takes on, cool.
>> Justin Meyer: So I'm gonna write jQuery
CSS method, which allows you to write
a style on an element and
also read the style on an element.
And this is gonna work just like
all of these other things have.
To read a style, we're gonna use this, but
to write a style we're gonna use
that style object, make sense?
So I'll do this real quick too.
>> Justin Meyer: So again it's gonna
look just like the code before,
if arguments.length is greater than 1.
>> Speaker 3: One thing I should
point out in the attribute line,
it's missing a return.
>> Justin Meyer: Thank you very much.
>> Justin Meyer: I'm gonna copy this.
So if we're setting, what are we gonna
do to each element that we're setting?
>> Justin Meyer: How do you set a style?
How do you change an individual
element's style properties?
>> Speaker 4: Element.style.
>> Justin Meyer: Element.style, and
then how am I gonna change it, so this is,
if I'm calling this like,
let's copy this code here.
>> Justin Meyer: If I'm calling
the css function with padding,
cssPropName is padding in values,
20 pixels, this is the style object,
how do I set something on it,
how do I set a property on it?
>> Speaker 4: With [cssPropName],
and set that to value.
>> Justin Meyer: Exactly right, so this is
how you can change an element's styles.
Now to read it,
I don't even have this memorized, and
I've written this exercise out so
many times
>> Justin Meyer: What I'm going to do is,
it's document.defaultView.getComputedStyle
with the element, so
I'm gonna do the same kind of
thing where I do return this[0].
And I'm going to pass in the element
whose computed styles I want,
and I'm going to get the property value
that I want to return to the user.
>> Justin Meyer: Makes sense, hopefully.
So again, all that you need to take from
these last ten minutes where I've been
talking, is to read and write attribute
properties directly on an element.
You use these methods or if you're
using jQuery, use its attr method.
And if you're reading the computed
value of CSS, you're gonna use this
computedStyle.getPropertyValue, or
you're going to set the style property.
If you're going direct to the DOM and
if you're going to use
jQuery you can just read this CSS,
you can use the CSS method.
So I'm going to demo all of this real
quick to show you how fun it is.
>> Justin Meyer: Let me refresh,
>> Justin Meyer: I'm
going to get the input.
And I'm gonna change its color to green,
and now it's green even though it's not
very big, but it is green if you can tell.
And then I can set its attribute,
let's just set some data attribute to bar.
Now if I look at this element in the page,
it's got a data-foo attribute of bar.
I can use that to read and write.